ui/README.md, before:

# CloudStack UI

A modern role-based progressive CloudStack UI based on VueJS and Ant Design.

![Screenshot](docs/screenshot-dashboard.png)

## Getting Started

Install node: (Debian/Ubuntu)

    curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo -E bash -
    sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
    # Or use distro provided: sudo apt-get install npm nodejs

Install node: (CentOS/Fedora/RHEL)

    curl -sL https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo bash -
    sudo yum install nodejs

Optionally, you may also install system-wide dev tools:

    sudo npm install -g @vue/cli npm-check-updates

## Development

Clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/apache/cloudstack.git
    cd cloudstack/ui
    npm install

Override the default `CS_URL` to a running CloudStack management server:

    cp .env.local.example .env.local
    Change the `CS_URL` in the `.env.local` file

To configure https, you may use `.env.local.https.example`.

Build and run:

    npm run serve
    # Or run: npm start

Upgrade dependencies to the latest versions:

    ncu -u

Run Tests:

    npm run test
    npm run lint
    npm run test:unit

Fix issues and vulnerabilities:

    npm audit

A basic development guide and explaination of the basic components can be found
  [here](docs/development.md)

## Production

Fetch dependencies and build:

    npm install
    npm run build

This creates a static webpack application in `dist/`, which can then be served
from any web server or CloudStack management server (jetty).

To use CloudStack management server (jetty), you may copy the built UI to the
webapp directory on the management server host. For example:

    npm install
    npm run build
    cd dist
    mkdir -p /usr/share/cloudstack-management/webapp/
    cp -vr . /usr/share/cloudstack-management/webapp/
    # Access UI at {management-server}:8080/client in browser

If the webapp directory is changed, please change the `webapp.dir` in the
`/etc/cloudstack/management/server.properties` and restart the management server host.

To use a separate webserver, note that the API server is accessed through the path
`/client`, which needs be forwarded to an actual CloudStack instance.

For example, a simple way to serve UI with nginx can be implemented with the
following nginx configuration (to be put into /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf or similar):

```nginx
server {
    listen       80;
    server_name  localhost;
    location / {
        # /src/ui/dist contains the built UI webpack
        root   /src/ui/dist;
        index  index.html;
    }
    location /client/ {
        # http://127.0.0.1:800 should be replaced your CloudStack management
        # server's actual URI
        proxy_pass   http://127.0.0.1:8000;
    }
}
```

### Docker

A production-ready Docker container can also be built with the provided
Dockerfile and build script.

Make sure Docker is installed, then run:

    bash docker.sh

Change the example configuration in `nginx/default.conf` according to your needs.

Run UI:

    docker run -ti --rm -p 8080:80 -v $(pwd)/nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d:ro cloudstack-ui:latest

### Packaging

The following is tested to work on any Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 base installation or
docker container:

    # Install nodejs (lts)
    curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_12.x | sudo -E bash -
    sudo apt-get install -y nodejs debhelper rpm
    # Install build tools
    npm install -g @vue/cli webpack eslint
    # Clone this repository and run package.sh
    cd <cloned-repository>/packaging
    bash -x package.sh

## Documentation

- VueJS Guide: https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/
- Vue Ant Design: https://www.antdv.com/docs/vue/introduce/
- UI Developer [Docs](docs)
- JavaScript ES6 Reference: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/es6/
- Introduction to ES6: https://scrimba.com/g/gintrotoes6

## Attributions

The UI uses the following:

- [VueJS](https://vuejs.org/)
- [Ant Design Spec](https://ant.design/docs/spec/introduce)
- [Ant Design Vue](https://vue.ant.design/)
- [Ant Design Pro Vue](https://github.com/sendya/ant-design-pro-vue)
- [Fontawesome](https://github.com/FortAwesome/vue-fontawesome)
- [ViserJS](https://viserjs.github.io/docs.html#/viser/guide/installation)
- [Icons](https://www.iconfinder.com/iconsets/cat-force) by [Iconka](https://iconka.com/en/downloads/cat-power/)

## History

The modern UI, originally called Primate, was created by [Rohit
Yadav](https://rohityadav.cloud) over several weekends during late 2018 and
early 2019. During ApacheCon CCCUS19, on 9th September 2019, Primate was
introduced and demoed as part of the talk [Modern UI
for CloudStack](https://rohityadav.cloud/files/talks/cccna19-primate.pdf)
([video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F2KwZhechzs)).
[Primate](https://markmail.org/message/vxnskmwhfaagnm4r) was accepted by the
Apache CloudStack project on 21 Oct 2019. The original repo was [merged with the
main apache/cloudstack](https://markmail.org/message/bgnn4xkjnlzseeuv) repo on
20 Jan 2021.

## License

Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.

Commit message:

.github: Migrate Travis to Github Actions and Simulator based CI (#6956)
Runs on default spec:
2-core CPU (x86_64)
7 GB of RAM
14 GB of SSD space

https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners#supported-runners-and-hardware-resources

Signed-off-by: Rohit Yadav <rohit.yadav@shapeblue.com>

ui/README.md, after:

# CloudStack UI

A modern role-based progressive CloudStack UI based on VueJS and Ant Design.

![Screenshot](docs/screenshot-dashboard.png)

## Getting Started

Install node: (Debian/Ubuntu)

    curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo -E bash -
    sudo apt-get install -y nodejs
    # Or use distro provided: sudo apt-get install npm nodejs

Install node: (CentOS/Fedora/RHEL)

    curl -sL https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo bash -
    sudo yum install nodejs

Install node: (Mac OS)

    brew install node@16

Optionally, you may also install system-wide dev tools:

    sudo npm install -g @vue/cli npm-check-updates

## Development

Clone the repository:

    git clone https://github.com/apache/cloudstack.git
    cd cloudstack/ui
    npm install

Override the default `CS_URL` to a running CloudStack management server:

    cp .env.local.example .env.local
    Change the `CS_URL` in the `.env.local` file

To configure https, you may use `.env.local.https.example`.

To use the community Simulator QA server you can do this:

    echo "CS_URL=https://qa.cloudstack.cloud" > .env.local

Build and run:

    npm run serve
    # Or run: npm start

Upgrade dependencies to the latest versions:

    ncu -u

Run Lint and Unit Tests:

    npm run lint
    npm run test:unit

Fix issues and vulnerabilities:

    npm audit

A basic development guide and explaination of the basic components can be found
  [here](docs/development.md)

## Production

Fetch dependencies and build:

    npm install
    npm run build

This creates a static webpack application in `dist/`, which can then be served
from any web server or CloudStack management server (jetty).

To use CloudStack management server (jetty), you may copy the built UI to the
webapp directory on the management server host. For example:

    npm install
    npm run build
    cd dist
    mkdir -p /usr/share/cloudstack-management/webapp/
    cp -vr . /usr/share/cloudstack-management/webapp/
    # Access UI at {management-server}:8080/client in browser

If the webapp directory is changed, please change the `webapp.dir` in the
`/etc/cloudstack/management/server.properties` and restart the management server host.

To use a separate webserver, note that the API server is accessed through the path
`/client`, which needs be forwarded to an actual CloudStack instance.

For example, a simple way to serve UI with nginx can be implemented with the
following nginx configuration (to be put into /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf or similar):

```nginx
server {
    listen       80;
    server_name  localhost;
    location / {
        # /src/ui/dist contains the built UI webpack
        root   /src/ui/dist;
        index  index.html;
    }
    location /client/ {
        # http://127.0.0.1:800 should be replaced your CloudStack management
        # server's actual URI
        proxy_pass   http://127.0.0.1:8000;
    }
}
```

### Docker

A production-ready Docker container can also be built with the provided
Dockerfile and build script.

Make sure Docker is installed, then run:

    bash docker.sh

Change the example configuration in `nginx/default.conf` according to your needs.

Run UI:

    docker run -ti --rm -p 8080:80 -v $(pwd)/nginx:/etc/nginx/conf.d:ro cloudstack-ui:latest

### Packaging

The following is tested to work on any Ubuntu 18.04/20.04 base installation or
docker container:

    # Install nodejs (lts)
    curl -sL https://deb.nodesource.com/setup_14.x | sudo -E bash -
    sudo apt-get install -y nodejs debhelper rpm
    # Install build tools
    npm install -g @vue/cli webpack eslint
    # Clone this repository and run package.sh
    cd <cloned-repository>/packaging
    bash -x package.sh

## Documentation

- VueJS Guide: https://vuejs.org/guide/
- Vue Ant Design: https://www.antdv.com/docs/vue/introduce/
- UI Developer [Docs](docs)
- JavaScript ES6 Reference: https://www.tutorialspoint.com/es6/
- Introduction to ES6: https://scrimba.com/g/gintrotoes6

## Attributions

The UI uses the following:

- [VueJS](https://vuejs.org/)
- [Ant Design Spec](https://ant.design/docs/spec/introduce)
- [Ant Design Vue](https://vue.ant.design/)
- [Ant Design Pro Vue](https://github.com/sendya/ant-design-pro-vue)
- [Fontawesome](https://github.com/FortAwesome/vue-fontawesome)
- [ViserJS](https://viserjs.github.io/docs.html#/viser/guide/installation)
- [Icons](https://www.iconfinder.com/iconsets/cat-force) by [Iconka](https://iconka.com/en/downloads/cat-power/)

## History

The modern UI, originally called Primate, was created by [Rohit
Yadav](https://rohityadav.cloud) over several weekends during late 2018 and
early 2019. During ApacheCon CCCUS19, on 9th September 2019, Primate was
introduced and demoed as part of the talk [Modern UI
for CloudStack](https://rohityadav.cloud/files/talks/cccna19-primate.pdf)
([video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F2KwZhechzs)).
[Primate](https://markmail.org/message/vxnskmwhfaagnm4r) was accepted by the
Apache CloudStack project on 21 Oct 2019. The original repo was [merged with the
main apache/cloudstack](https://markmail.org/message/bgnn4xkjnlzseeuv) repo on
20 Jan 2021.

## License

Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
